# Getting-and-Cleaning-Data---peer-assessment-project
Getting and Cleaning Data - peer assessment project The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:  http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones  The data for the project:  https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip  In the run_analysis.R script, functions were created for each step.  Function r_Data : This function takes two variables, the suffix for the filename, folder name in which the file exists. Since the data exists in two folders with file names as subject_train, X_train, y_train. The y_data file contains Activity_ID. The X_data file contains data for MeasureID and MeasureName. The subject_data file contains SubjectID. This function reads the three files from a folder and creates data.frame in R environment with appropriate column names. The grep function is used to match only those columns which has MeasureName for mean and standard deviation.  Function read_test_data : This function is used to read the test data into the R environment  Function read_train_data : This function is used to read the train data into the R environment  Function mergeDataset : This function combines the two dataset read in the above functions, by rows.Further, proper name is given to the columns and dataset is returned.  Function activityLabels: This function takes a dataset as argument and reads the activity labels from text files and merges it with the dataset.  Function merge_label_data : This function runs the activityLabels function to get a activity labelled dataset.  Function tidyData: This function creates a tidy data set with average of each variable for each activity and each subject.  Function tidy_datafile: A new tidy independent dataset is generated and saved a text file to be submitted.
